Now let's have a look at controller.h and controller.cpp.
In controller.h, we include the snake header,
since we'll be modifying a snake object in this class,
and we have methods for handling input
and changing the direction of the snake depending on that input.
We'll look at how these methods are defined over in controller.cpp.
Let's have a look at handleinput first.
To start handleinput, we declare an SDL_ Event
e. If we go look at the documentation for SDL_Event it says,
the SDL_Event is union that contains structures for the different event types.
We can see that different event types include Window Events,
Keyboard Events, Mouse Motion Events.
So these are all different kinds of events that you might want to process in your game.
Once we've declared that event e,
we pass the event as a reference into the function SDL_PollEvent.
We can look at what SDL_PollEvent does and it says in
the documentation that SDL_PollEvent is used to poll currently pending events.
So basically, when a user has any sort
of input into the game like a keypress or a Mouse Event,
SDL_PollEvent is called and that event is assigned to
the SDL_Event e. So in this while loop we check if the event type is an SDL_Quit,
in which case we declare running,
we set running equal to false.
We also check if the event type is a keypress or SDL_KeyDown.
If it is an SDL_ KeyDown,
we determine which key is pressed using a switch,
so we call e.key.keysym.sym
and you can look at the documentation to see exactly what's going on here.
But in the case that the keypress was an SDLK _UP,
we want to change the direction of the snake to go up.
If the case was SDLK_ DOWN,
similarly we want to change the direction to go down
and the same holds for left and right.
So in the change direction function,
we pass in a reference to the snake and we also pass in the case
SDLK_UP the direction of keypress and the opposite direction.
Similarly, in SDLK_ LEFT we pass in the keypress direction which is
kLeft and we also pass in the opposite direction
kRright and we'll go look at the definition of change directions to see why that is.
So here we have the direction which is
the key direction input and the opposite direction.
We'll look at the if statement here,
so if the snake size is equal to one,
so if the snake has no body basically,
then we can change the direction to be the input direction without any further concern.
If the snake has a body,
in other words if the snake size is bigger than one,
we cannot turn around and go at exactly in the opposite direction,
otherwise we run into the snake's body,
the snake will run into its own body and the game will be over.
So we basically want to check the current direction of
the snake direction and make sure that it's not equal to the opposite direction.
If the current direction of
the snake is not equal to the opposite direction of the input,
then we can set the snake direction equal to the input and we're done.